Asynchronous messaging involves a client that does not wait for a message from the server. An event is used to trigger a message from a server. So even if the client is down, the messaging will complete successfully. Asynchronous Messaging means that, it is a one way communication and the flow of communication is one way only. Asynchronous messaging involves a client that does not wait for a message from the server. An event is used to trigger a message from a server. So even if the client is down, the messaging will complete successfully. Asynchronous Messaging means that, it is a one way communication and the flow of communication is one way only. There are some key advantages to asynchronous messaging. They enable flexibility and offer higher availability – There’s less pressure on the system to act on the information or immediately respond in some way. Also, one system being down does not impact the other system. For example, emails – you can send thousands of emails to your friend without her having to revert back to you.The drawbacks of asynchronous collaboration are that they can lack a sense of immediacy. There’s less immediate interaction. Think about doing a chat with your friend on an instant messenger or over phone – it isn’t a chat or a conversation unless your friend is replying back to you promptly. Asynchronous message passing allows more parallelism. Since a process does not block, it can do some computation while the message is in transit. In the case of receive, this means a process can express its interest in receving messages on multiple ports simultaneously.

