Load balancing is defined as the methodical and efficient distribution of network or application traffic across multiple servers in a server farm. Each load balancer sits between client devices and backend servers, receiving and then distributing incoming requests to any available server capable of fulfilling them. HTTP(S) Load Balancing is a global, proxy-based Layer 7 load balancer that enables you to run and scale your services worldwide behind a single external IP address. External HTTP(S) Load Balancing distributes HTTP and HTTPS traffic to backends hosted on Compute Engine and Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). The load balancer attempts to evenly distribute the workload among multiple instances (either stand-alone or clustered), thereby increasing the overall throughput of the system. The HTTP Load Balancer enables high availability of services deployed on Java EE Application Servers.
The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet. Humans access information online through domain names, like nytimes.com or espn.com. Web browsers interact through Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. DNS translates domain names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources. Each device connected to the Internet has a unique IP address which other machines use to find the device. DNS servers eliminate the need for humans to memorize IP addresses in IPv4, or more complex newer alphanumeric IP addresses in IPv6. The process of DNS resolution involves converting a hostname  into a computer-friendly IP address such as 192.168.1.1. An IP address is given to each device on the Internet, and that address is necessary to find the appropriate Internet device - like a street address is used to find a particular home. When a user wants to load a webpage, a translation must occur between what a user types into their web browser and the machine-friendly address necessary to locate the webpage.